As seen in the previous concept,
fixed thresholding is not an optimal solution.
Hence, we have CFAR,
constant false alarm rate, or CFAR,
is the solution to keep the false alarm rates lower without missing that valid targets.
Let's see how CFAR works.
CFAR varies the detection threshold based on the target surroundings.
The basis of the processes that when noise is present,
the cells around the cell of interest will contain a good estimate of the noise.
That is, it assumes that the noise or
interference is spatially or temporally homogeneous.
Theoretically, it will produce
a constant false alarm rate which is independent of the noise at clutter level.
In the image, the blue wearing line is a CFAR threshold,
where the rest three are the fixed thresholds were different offsets.
CFAR allows while the targets should to be detected,
and at the same time, suppresses the clutter noise.